XR Table Top (#114)
Esri/arcgis-maps-sdk-unity-samples: xr_sample_project/Assets/SampleViewer/Samples/XRTableTop/readme.md

# Explore the World In Table Top VR

Move around in an ArcGIS World using Virtual Reality to move and fly through different cities
![Image of XR Table Top](XRTableTop.png)

## How to use the sample

> There are two ways to use this headset, Desktop VR and Android VR. This sample utilizes the OpenXR framework and supports the following headsets/devices for **Desktop VR**:

Author: > And again, should we use VR or XR?

VR, XR include AR, MR, and VR

> There are two ways to use this headset, Desktop VR and Android VR. This sample utilizes the OpenXR framework and supports the following headsets/devices for **Desktop VR**:

Reviewer: But this sample can run as both VR or MR, right?

> There are two ways to use this headset, Desktop VR and Android VR. This sample utilizes the OpenXR framework and supports the following headsets/devices for **Desktop VR**:

Author: Yes but it is platform dependent. We should only change it to MR when talking specifically for android deployment.

> There are two ways to use this headset, Desktop VR and Android VR. This sample utilizes the OpenXR framework and supports the following headsets/devices for **Desktop VR**:

Reviewer: > Instead of Desktop and Android, I think we should use tethered and standalone (or something along those lines). Desktop VR is ambiguous and may refer to a virtual world experience using a regular monitor.

I don't feel strongly about this but just wanted to make sure it didn't go unnoticed in between other comments.

2. Place the headset on your head. The sample should automatically use the headset to control the camera's position and rotation in the world. 
3. To move, use the joystick on the left controller, pushing the joystick (on a Quest controller) or moving on the touchpad (on a Vive controller) will move you in that direction. Move up and down by pushing the right joystick (on a Quest controller) forward and backward, or moving forward and backward on the touchpad (on a Vive controller).The right controller can also be used to 'snap turn' 45 degrees, making it so you can turn around quickly. Select the snap turn option, push the joystick left and right (on a Quest controller) or swipe left and right (on a Vive controllers) to snap turn. 
4. Use the menu button on controllers to open/close the menu, pull the left or right trigger to interact with the menu. 

**Note: AR Foundation is installed and is used to allow Passthrough on the Meta Quest Devices. If you would like to have Passthrough on other devices, please refer to the developer section for that headset**

> **For Android Use**

Reviewer: That's a good idea depending on how many changes are necessary (does the UI need to be changed then too?).  I'm fine with either option (conditional macros or doc notes). But even if we take the conditional path, we might need to mention something here because it would seem strange if some of the presets are missing after the build.

> **For Android Use**

Author: UI can stay the same, just when you cycle to Redlands or Christchruch there won't be a BSL there. But both of those locations have other meshes there so it's not like it would just be terrain.

Please ensure that the project is using URP if you are using any of the Meta Headsets listed above. HDRP may be used for any of the other headsets, but not Meta. It will cause errors in the project. 

## How it works

This sample provides three Prefabs for users to add to any scene making setup easy! 
- XR Origin: This Prefab holds all the components for tracking the VR headset and controllers, as well as the camera that renders components in the scene. 
- XR Interaction Manager: This Prefab receives the input from the headset and controllers and allows the user to move their hands using the controllers as well as to control the rotation by moving their head with the headset on. Without this Prefab in the scene, the sample **will not work**. 
- Locomotion System: This Prefab controls the movement in the sample, such as walking and flying around. 

> 1. Create a map and check the box for **Mesh Colliers Enabled** on the **ArcGIS Map** component if you want the camera to be able to interact with buildings and the ground. This will have a negative impact on performance so you may want to disable this on less powerful devices.

Author: This was outdated and incorrect. This was for the VR Sample. It never got updated. Should be correct now.

- HTC Vive Cosmos
- Valve Index

This sample utilizes the OpenXR framework and supports the following headsets/devices for **Android XR**:
- Meta Quest
- Meta Quest 2
- Meta Quest Pro
- Meta Quest 3
- HTC Vive XR Elite

### Deployment

For deploying, please refer to this [document](https://developers.arcgis.com/unity/deployment/)

> In order for the sample to run on Meta Headsets, the device must be placed in **Developer Mode**. Please refer to this [document](https://developer.Meta.com/documentation/native/android/mobile-device-setup/) for how to perform such an action. This must be done for running the sample in the Unity Engine, making a build to run on Windows, or making a build directly to the headset (Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2, and Meta Quest Pro)

Reviewer: Looks like this link is not valid anymore

1. Ensure your headset is in developer mode and that unknown sources are allowed on your device.
2. Ensure your headset is connected properly to your computer.
3. Navigate to File > Build Settings within Unity.
4. Ensure that your Build Target is set to Android, if it is not please change it by selecting, switch platform after clicking on 'Android'. If you do not have the option to change it, close Unity and install the Android Build Support to your Unity Editor through Unity Hub.
5. Inside of the build settings, select your headset under 'Run Device'.
6. Click 'Build and Run'.
7. Once finished, you may put your headset on and enjoy the sample.

**Using the Application**
1. Ensure your headset is properly connected to your computer. For Meta Headsets, make sure the Meta Desktop App is open and your headset says **connected** in the **devices** section. For Steam VR headsets, ensure Steam is open and Steam VR is running. 
2. Place the headset on your head. The sample should automatically use the headset to control the camera's position and rotation in the world. 
3. Using the right joystick you can zoom in or out of the map in order to get a different perspective.

> 4. Pressing the grab buttons on either controller and aiming at the 'Table Handle' will allow you to move the entire application around in virtual space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Pressing the grab buttons on either controller and aiming at the 'Table Handle' will allow you to move the (map? tabletop?) around in virtual space.
```
